There are two type of interface:
a. CLI - Command Line Interface
b. GUI - Graphical Uster Interface


Commands:
1. cd:- change directory
2. ls:- list items
3. pwd:- print working directory
4. /:- is the root directory
5. cd ..:- goes back to the previous directory
6. mkdir:- make directory
7. touch:- generates a txt file
8. mv:- moves file in the directory
9. cp:- copy file and directory
10. sudo:- overwriting access
11. su(#):- super user
12. apt:- application
13. apt-get update:- updates the list of all the command
14. . :- current directory
15. .. :- parent directory
16. clear:- clear the terminal console
17. history:- shows all the commands executed in the terminal during its use. Hence, it is not advisable to use/write password in the command as it can be easily accessed.
18. echo:- prints the content written in after it in the terminal
19. printf:- same as echo but the content should be writtne inside "". It can contain the special characters inside "" using \.
20. chmod:- used to change the permissions of the owner, group and public of a file or directory. It uses the integer and converts it into binery to derive the permission format for a file.
21. top:- shows the top consuming resources.
22. ps:- shows the running resources.
23. kill:- it kills the running software or background activity.


General:
1. If we generate a file using touch and it starts with .format then linux considers it as a hidden file.
2. Since linux file system is case sensitive, we can create multiple files of same name in the same directory.
3. -rw-r--r-- 1 sunilx sunilx 0 Jul 7 21:15 2.txt
	In the above details, -(User)(Group)(Public)
	As we can see, User has rw-, Group has r-- and Public has r--
	It means User has read, write permission, while members of group has read permission and Public has read permission.
	It can be set by chmod calculator. (Read, Write, Execute)
		chmod calculator gives a number by considering the selected as 1 and not selected as 0 and ultimately converting it into an integer.
4. Press enter and then q to come out of a running operating in the terminal.
5. By writing sudo su and pressing, it changes the command line from regular_user($) to super_user($). 
Type rm -r my_directory and press "Enter"

Execution Pattern:
1. ls - gives the list of all the items
2. cd directory_name - changes the directory to the given name
3. press TAB button to autocomplete the command
4. cd .. - goes back to the previous node
5. mkdir directory_name - generate the directory_name in the current directory
6. touch file_name.txt - generate a txt file in the current directory
7. mv path_of_file_to_be_moved.format path_where_file_will_be_moved - moves the file to the specified path.
8. cp path_of_file_to_be_copied.format path_where_file_will_be_copied - copies the file to the destination path.
9. sudo apt-get update - updates the file packages.
10. sudo apt-get upgrade - installs the updated packages into the kernal
11. ls -R - gives the list of files and directory and then shows the content of the directories also
12. ls -a - shows all the files including hidden files in the current directory
13. ls -lart:
	The ls command in Linux is used to list the contents of a directory. The -lart options are used to display the following information about each file or directory:

			l: Long listing format. This shows one file in each line with additional information such as permissions, ownership, size, timestamps, etc.
			a: All files. This includes hidden files, which are files whose names start with a period (.).
			r: Reverse order. This lists the files and directories in reverse order, with the most recently modified file or directory listed first.
			t: Time. This sorts the files and directories by their last modification time, with the most recently modified file or directory listed first.
14. sudo apt install software - installs the software inside the system or server.
15. chmod _number_ file.format - changes the file permission format according to the number
16. ps -a - shows all the current resources in descending order as per the resourece consumption.
17. kill int(process_id) - terminate the software corresponding to the process_id
18. apt install vim (Mode: super_user(#)) - installs vim a text editor in linux
	vim is a text editor.
	command: vim file.txt --> open the content of the file.
			After this, press "i" to enter into insert mode and then start entering the data. Then press escape to come out of the insert mode. press :wq and save the file along with the written concent in it.
			If we want to open a file and by mistake alter its content, we can exit from the file without altering by just pressing the command :q!. We will comeout of the file without altering the existing data.
			
			
Users in linux:
1. Regular User($): Will have home directory. Have full permission in its home directory but cannot access other users directory
2. Root User: Full access to all directory a.k.a Super User or Admin. By just typing sudo before any command, all the codes can be accessed. 
Also by using sudo su before a command, all the things can be done as su stand for super_user(#) but this is not advicible.
3. Service User


Absolute Vs Relative Path:
/ is root node.
bin, etc, apps, ....
and further files in each of the above directory.
This forms a tree.
Absolute path: starts with "/" as root and goes till the desired path.
Relavite path: take the current wording directory and moves relative to that by .. or by cd and path name inside its current directory.
